# Encryption Analysis

Encryption Analysis calculates the entropies of data flows and classifies each flow as either encrypted, text, media, or unknown.

## Setup

The system should have **wireshark/tshark** installed; the versions that our machines have tested to be working are **v2.6.7**, **v2.6.8**, and **v2.6.10**.

We use Python 3 unless otherwise specified.

## Usage

The Jupyter Notebook [encryption_sample.ipynb](encryption_sample.ipynb) provides steps to parse a pcap file and label each flow as one of the four data types (encrypted, text, media, unknown).

`encryption.sh` is an equivalent to the Jupyter Notebook, which can be run directly in the terminal.

Usage: `./encryption.sh in_pcap out_csv ek_json`

Example: `./encryption.sh sample.pcap sample.csv sample.json`

The sample code intends to demonstrate how we processed a single file. One should adapt the code in their cluster environment to process the whole dataset (traffic of 34,586 experiments). 

### Input

`in_pcap` - The path to the input pcap file.
`out_csv` - The path to the output CSV file that will will be generated from `ek_json`.
`ek_json` - The path to the intermediate JSON file that will be generated from `in_pcap`.

Note: If `out_csv` and `ek_json` do not exist, they will be generated by the scripts. If they do currently exist, **they will be overwritten**.

### Output

First, TShark decodes the pcap file into the JSON file. `shrink_compute.py` then performs analysis on the JSON file, which produces the CSV file.

The CSV file has ten headings. Their meanings are listed below:

- `ip_src` - The IP address of the source.
- `ip_dest` - The IP address of the destination.
- `srcport` - The transport layer source port number.
- `dstport` - The transport layer destination port number.
- `tp_proto` - The transport layer protocol.
- `data_proto` - The application layer protocol.
- `data_type` - The data type. Either unknown, text, media, compressed, or encrypted.
- `data_len` - The length of the data in bytes.
- `entropy` - The entropy of the data.
- `reason` - Information about the output.

